      
                                                      
                         
      
      

Good education not only teaches one how to live but also builds one’s strength of character. The knowledge acquired in schools and colleges, I believe, is not complete without its practical usage, for which engineering is a gateway. It is this belief that makes me ‘a student to the end of my days’, the obvious direction being from curiosity towards exploration.

I was fortunate to have begun with a good early education and as I grew, my interests and ability were inclined towards the physical nature of the universe. I was attracted towards the greatest discoveries of time coming from Einstein and many other great scientists. Science unraveled many a mystery for me, math challenged me and gave me joy. Learning itself became key to my life.


My respect for education and inclination towards applied science drove me to opt for math, physics and chemistry in my higher secondary education. After completing my high school, I felt that Engineering would be the area, which would give me the opportunity to learn and explore how the fundamentals of science are applied to create technology for practical and real purposes. I had C++ as an optional subject in 11th and 12th standard which provided me the beauty of programming world. I was fascinated by the idea of writing code and making a computer to solve some interesting problems of life. Moreover, my innate strengths have always been creative abilities and the power of imagination; which made me take up a discipline that would allow me to channel them in the best possible way. Thus, Computer Science Engineering was a direct consequence of my convictions. Subjects like Object Oriented programming, C-programming, Data Structure and algorithms revealed to me limitless horizons in the field of Computer science engineering. During my second year I participated in various Hackathons, Devcons and Techathons in various cities and colleges. I managed to win some of them. But over that it provided me a platform to boost my confidence by talking to industry experts and applying my knowledge and ideas of what I learnt in college.

During my second year and first year summer breaks and winter breaks, I got industrial exposure by interning at some of the great places where I learnt a lot. It included Google Hyderabad where the project was on Java, XML, Android and algorithm development. It also boosted my confidence to make myself comfortable on open source world. It comprised of working with some of the greatest minds and challenging tasks. Another one was at NTPC Badarpur where the task was the development of web application and mobile application. It included working on Java, XML, Oracle databases, server and web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript and MySQL. I also worked with InfoNotes where the task was to solve some real life problems using Mobile technologies. 






All of these projects and internships required a lot of coding stuff but over that it boosted my confidence to work on real life problems taking up big challenges and bringing out an 
open source enthusiast in me. I have also contributed to open source softwares like Privly during Google Summer of code 2014 and Mozilla and some java and android based open source projects. Some of my areas of interests include: Information retrieval, Machine Learning, Data structure and algorithms, applications for portable devices like mobile and wear devices like android wear, open source software. I am willing to work on your first project that is –“Design and development of state of art automated framework and performance evaluation systems for high performance large scale distributed environment systems”.  I am attracted to this because it is based on java applications (have prior experience on it) and problem solving which can be challenging as well. 

I want to pursue my career in the field of software and technologies. This project in your company will boost my confidence to take up new challenges in the field of computer science. This internship will provide me a platform to boost my leadership as well as coding skills. I am always curious to know about the integration of awesome animations done in movies like Avatar, Spiderman, Shrek etc. So this internship will also provide me to taste the new flavor of this amazing industry of animations and dream. I hope to see Technicolor internship as my next milestone for success.



 










2


